---
title: Austalk Corpus Licence Terms
layout: page
---

Download licence as pdf
[here](/assets/attachments/AusTalk_Content_Licence_Terms.pdf).

1\. Use of the AusTalk Content

\(a\) These Licence Terms govern your use of the AusTalk Corpus (as
defined below).

\(b\) By registering to use the AusTalk Corpus you agree to comply with
these Licence Terms. If you do not agree to comply with the Licence
Terms, you must not continue to use or reproduce the AusTalk Content

\(c\) The University of Western Sydney (ABN 53 014 069 881) controls the
AusTalk Corpus. Throughout these Licence Terms, we, our and us means The
University of Western Sydney (ABN 53 014 069 881). To view our contact
details please see www.uws.mq.edu.au.

2\. Licence terms

\(a\) We grant you a non-transferable, royalty-free, non-exclusive
licence to use and reproduce the audio recordings, video recordings and
demographic data that make up the AusTalk Corpus, at our absolute
discretion, for research and educational purposes, in accordance with
these Licence Terms. This licence continues until terminated in
accordance with these Licence Terms.

\(b\) We reserve the right to add or remove any AusTalk Content from the
Site at any time at our discretion.

\(c\) You may reproduce the AusTalk Corpus on an \"as-is\" basis for
research and educational purposes, whether commercial or non-commercial
in nature, in accordance with the Terms.

\(d\) You will not use, reproduce, exploit or make available any AusTalk
Corpus data in a manner that:

\(i\) is malicious, offensive, discriminatory, unlawful, harmful,
threatening, abusive, harassing, tortious, defamatory, derogatory,
obscene, libellous, invasive of anothers privacy hateful sexist ageist
homophobic or racially ethnically or otherwise objectionable;

\(ii\) may cause alarm or distress to the participants depicted in the
AusTalk Content;

\(iii\) harms minors in any way or constitutes abuse;

\(iv\) engages in or promotes any surveys contests pyramid schemes chain
letters unsolicited e-mailing or spamming;

\(v\) promotes racism bigotry hatred harassment or any kind of harm
against any group or individual; or

\(vi\) is false misleading or deceptive.

3\. Your obligations

\(a\) You agree you will:

\(i\) comply with the Licence Terms with respect to the AusTalk Corpus;
and

\(b\) You agree that you will not:

\(i\) Publish sub-license lease or sell the AusTalk Corpus including
making the AusTalk Corpus publicly available by any means other than
those sanctioned by the Licence Terms;

\(ii\) modify edit remix or make mash ups of any AusTalk Corpus datafor
any purpose other than genuine research and educational purposes; or

\(iii\) exploit the audio recordings or video recordings comprised in
the AusTalk Corpus in a commercial manner other than in accordance with
these Licence Terms.

4\. AusTalk Corpus de-identified

You acknowledge that the AusTalk Corpus data has been de-identified and
you will not attempt to identify or attribute any recordings contained
in the AusTalk Corpus to any individual.

5\. Attribution of the AusTalk Corpus

When you access use reproduce exploit or make reference in publications
to the AusTalk Content you will attribute the ownership of the AusTalk
Content to us by referring to the following published paper referenced
below or as otherwise notified by us to you:

Burnham D. Estival D. Fazio S. Viethen J. Cox J. Dale R. Cassidy S. Epps
J. Togneri R. Wagner M. Kinoshita Y. GÃ¶cke R. Arciuli J. Onslow. M.
Lewis T. Butcher A. & Hajek J. (2011) Building an audio-visual corpus of
Australian English: large corpus collection with an economical portable
and replicable Black Box. Proceedings of 12th Annual Conference of the
International Speech Communication Association (Interspeech 2011) ISSN
1990-9772 pp 841-844

6\. Accuracy of information

\(a\) We do not represent or make any warranty in respect of the
accuracy reliability completeness currency or continuous supply of any
of the AusTalk Content or the Research Materials.

\(b\) The AusTalk Content and Research Materials are provided on an \"as
is \" basis. We do not warrant that the AusTalk Content or Research
Materials will be free from errors or that they will be suitable for any
purpose required by you.

\(c\) We accept no responsibility or liability for any circumstances
that may arise as a result of anything stated or inferred in or from the
AusTalk Content or the Research Materials on this Site or their use.

7\. Termination

\(a\) We may terminate your licence to use and reproduce all or any part
of the AusTalk Content or Research Materials immediately if you commit a
breach of any of these Licence Terms.

\(b\) On termination of your licence to use the AusTalk Content and
Research Materials you must immediately cease using them and delete or
otherwise destroy or return to us all copies of the AusTalk Content that
you have in your possession custody or control and remove the AusTalk
Content from\
any materials that you have created from the AusTalk Content.
