---
title: Research Projects using AusTalk
layout: page
icon: fas fa-graduation-cap
---

## Lead researcher: Yeptain Leung, La Trobe University

Title: _"Pitch, resonance and their contributions to listener
perceptions of speaker gender"_\
Supervisors: Prof. Jennifer Oates (La Trobe University), Dr Viktoria
Papp (University of Canterbury), Dr Siew Pang Chan (National University
of Singapore).

Abstract: Transsexual individuals frequently display voice and
communication characteristics which are incongruent with their
experienced gender. This often leads to reduced participation in
everyday life and reduced quality-of-life (Hancock, Krissinger & Owen,
2011). Voice modifications via hormones, surgery or voice training can
be effective in creating a communicative characteristics congruent with
the desired gender (McNeill, 2006). This can alleviate a transsexual
individual's gender dysphoria, which is the feeling of distress as a
result of the marked difference between their experienced and
birth-assigned gender (T'Sjoen, 2013).

The aim of voice training is to help the individual adopt communication
characteristics congruent with their self-identified gender, thus
alleviating the dysphoria. Goal setting for voice therapy is based on
aspects of speech and voice most salient in listener perceptions of
speaker gender (Oates, 2012). Leung, Oates and Chan (2018)
systematically reviewed the literature on such aspects and found that
significant risks of bias exist in the body of research on contributors
to gender perception rendering conclusions about each aspects'
contribution unclear.

In the proposed studies, aspects of speaking fundamental frequency and
formant characteristics, which were identified in the review above, are
examined for their relative contributions to gender perception. Research
will address the risks of bias by first developing normative values for
speakers of Australian English on the two aspects and then establishing
associations between these aspects and gender perception in exploratory
and experimental research designs. The AusTalk corpus will be used as
the main source of audio files of speakers of Australian English.

## Lead researcher: Benjamin Weiss (Berlin Institute of Technology)

Title: _"Studying Perceptual Dimensions of Non-experts by Assessing
Speaker Differences\"_

Benjamin Weiss, Dominique Estival, Ulrike Stiefelhagen, (2018).
'Non-Experts Perceptual Dimensions of Voice Assessed by Using Direct
Comparisons'. Acta Acustica united with Acustica. Volume 104 Number 1
pp. 174-184(11). DOI: doi.org/10.3813/AAA.919157.

Abstract: In this study three data sets of 13 speakers each are analyzed
using the elicitation phase of the Repertory Grid Technique in order to
identify perceptual dimensions of non-expert listeners. Sentences read
by female and male speakers of German (Phondat 1 corpus) and by male
Australian English speakers (AusTalk corpus) were rated on
(dis)similarity by same-sex listeners using triples. Applying a balanced
incomplete design proposed for the Repertory Grid Technique frequencies
of dissimilar pairs are transformed into distance measures using
non-metrical multidimensional scaling. For both German data sets three
dimensions are found and four for the Australian data. The dimensions
describing the speaker differences are named 'calmness' 'monotony' and
'naturalness' for the German men; 'tension' 'positive timbre' and
'proficiency' for the German women; and 'pitch' 'untypical timbre &
voice' 'emotion' and an unnamed fourth dimension for the Australian men.
There are similarities between dimensions from the different data sets
('calmness' and 'tension'; 'naturalness' and 'proficiency'; 'timbre' and
'timbre & voice'). Calmness and skill have also been found in a smaller
earlier experiment applying the same method for German speakers. Overall
the dimensions found are more complex and speaker-related than typically
described in the literature. These results add to the current state of
research in perceptual dimensions of non-experts and represent the
foundation to develop a questionnaire for assessing listeners'
impressions.

## Lead researcher: Dominique Estival (Western Sydney University)

Title: _\"Conversational Australian English - Analysing Speech Acts in
AusTalk Map Tasks\"_

Trans-Disciplinary Innovation Grant from the Centre of Excellence for
the Dynamics of Language (2015-2016).

Abstract: This pilot project will identify new ways of mining large
speech corpora for specific speech acts (SAs) such as questions requests
for information and expressions of surprise or agreement/disagreement.
It will add to our understanding of how specific SAs are expressed and
to our knowledge of the special features of Australian English
especially in conversational speech. As one of the first explorations of
the AusTalk corpus using the Alveo virtual laboratory it will test its
potential for language and digital humanities research and lay the
grounds for automating the annotation and identification of SAs.

## Lead researcher: Trent Lewis (Flinders)

Title: _"Synthesizing Speech using the AusTalk Corpus\"_

Paper presented at SST 2014. Zhijie Shao Richard E. Leibbrandt and Trent
W. Lewis

Abstract: Speech Synthesis also called text-to-speech (TTS) is the task
of producing speech (acoustic waveform) from text. It has been widely
used in various domains. Though diverse accented English have been
synthesized a freely available Australian accented English has not been
well created. Therefore the project tries to synthesize an Australian
accented voice using the AusTalk corpus. The project adopted MARY
(Modular Architecture for Research on speech sYnthesis) a speech
synthesis system that includes useful auxiliary functions such as Voice
Import Tool and Emotion Markup Language Support for creating new voices.
The 59 Sentence component from one speaker of the AusTalk corpus was
selected as the database for building a voice. Preliminary subjective
evaluation by the researchers has suggested that in some cases the sound
quality of the AusTalk based voice was comparable to a larger high
quality Blizzard-based voice. Accuracy of the automatic phoneme
alignment can affect to quality of the voice hand aligned will be used
in the future as well as incorporating other components of the protocol.
A more systematic user evaluation is planned for the future.

## Lead researcher: Jaydene Elvin (UWS)

Title: _"Comparing acoustic analyses of Australian English vowels from
Sydney: Cox (2006) versus AusTalk"_

Paper presented at SST 2014. Jaydene Elvin & Paola Escudero

Abstract: This study presents a comparison of the acoustic properties of
Australian English monophthongs produced by 60 monolingual females from
Sydney's Northern Beaches reported in Cox's corpus and by the four
monolingual females from Sydney recorded within the AusTalk corpus.
Cross-corpus discriminant analyses are used to investigate the acoustic
similarity between the two corpora to determine whether the values from
these corpora would be appropriate for predicting L2 difficulty in
future cross-linguistic studies using Western Sydney speakers.
Preliminary findings suggest that there is little overall acoustic
similarity across these two vowel corpora as classification scores from
the discriminant analyses were consistently higher for the Cox corpus
than AusTalk. In particular greatest variation between the two corpora
is observed in their productions of front vowels. Limitations for
drawing conclusions based on the current data are provided and the need
for an additional corpus of Australian English vowels from speakers in
Western Sydney for future cross-linguistic studies is proposed.

## Lead researcher: Nhung Nguyen (UWS)

Title: _"Why the SQUARE vowel is the most variable in Sydney"_

Paper presented at SST 2014. Nhung Nguyen Jason A. Shaw

Abstract: Vowel variability is often explained in terms of linguistic
and social factors. We have observed another factor that predicts vowel
variability. Within four different corpora of Australian English vowels
we find a consistent relationship between the mean and standard
deviation of formant values. For both F1 and F2 increases in mean
formant values go hand in hand with increased variability. Given this
observation we propose that inferences about vowel variability take the
mean formant values into account. Doing so changes conclusions about
which vowels are most variable undergoing change or likely to reflect
meaningful social variation.

## Lead researcher: Roberto Togneri (UWA)

Title: _"Multimodal Speech Recognition with the AusTalk 3D Audio-Visual
Corpus"_

Tutorial at Interspeech 2014. Roberto Togneri Mohammed Bennamoun Chao
Sui

Abstract: This tutorial will provide attendees a brief overview of 3D
based AVSR research. In this tutorial attendees will learn how to use
the newly developed 3D based audio visual data corpus we derived from
the AusTalk corpus for audio-visual speech/speaker recognition. In
addition we also plan to introduce some results using this newly
developed 3D audio-visual data corpus which show that there is a
significant speech accuracy increase by integrating both depth-level and
grey-level visual features. In the first part of the tutorial we will
review some recent works published in the last decade so that attendees
can obtain an overview of the fundamental concepts and challenges in
this field. In the second part of the tutorial we will briefly describe
the recording protocol and contents of the 3D data corpus and show
attendees how to use this corpus for their own research. In the third
part of this tutorial we will present our results using the 3D data
corpus. The experimental results show that compared with the
conventional AVSR based on the audio and grey-level visual features the
integration of grey and depth visual information can boost the AVSR
accuracy significantly. Moreover we will also experimentally explain why
adding depth information can benefit the standard AVSR systems.
Eventually through our tutorial we hope we can inspire more researchers
in the community to contribute to this exciting research.

## Lead researcher: Sydney Kingstone (ANU)

Title: _"Australian English Dialect Perceptions"_

Abstract: Australians often think they can identify where people come
from by their accents and they also often have stereotypes associated
with particular ways of talking. This study explores language attitudes
across Australia and will make use of the AusTalk database in this
research. Using the methodology of perceptual dialectology non-expert
native Australian English speakers are asked a series of questions
through an online survey regarding social regional and cultural
differences in Australian English. These respondents identify dialect
differences through mental map tasks by identifying and describing
differences on a national and a local map of Australia. They are then
asked to rate regional and remoteness (urban/rural) differences across
Australia through six scales activities examining perceptions of 'degree
of difference' 'correctness' 'pleasantness' 'broadness' and 'speed of
speech'. Finally respondents locate and describe 16 voice samples from
the AusTalk corpus. The voice samples include two young-adult speakers
one male and one female from each state and territory. Respondents are
asked to identify where each speaker is from and to rate their accent on
a number of qualitative scales. Preliminary findings show native
Australian English speakers can identify regional and social differences
in Australian English across Australia. In particular regions noted as
distinct locally known or culturally stereotyped garner more frequent
and stronger associations. Further data will explore the accuracy of
voice identification and the role voice identification plays in
non-expert attitudes toward dialect perceptions.
